README.md, before:

# ProteinVR: Micro and Structural Biology in a Virtual World

**Introduction**

*Note: As of January 2019, this project is still ongoing* and a formal publication is being drafted related to the effectiveness of this software. 


**ProteinVR: Micro and Structural Biology in a Virtual World** is a revolutionary scientific undertaking from the Dr. Jacob D. Durrant Lab of Computational Drug Discovery ([DurrantLab Github](https://github.com/durrantlab)) at the University of Pittsburgh. We seek to leverage the power of new and inexpensive **Virtual Reality** technology to be the **first-ever software** that helps teach anatomy and molecular biology to a broad scientific audience. This softawre will be initially tailored to students at the collegiate level but can be adjusted for usage in secondary education. 

I helped revise and give feedback on the grant that went into this project, ultimately yielding **$25,000** in funding. 

**Files**

:file_folder: `Anatomical Model Renders/`

This folder contains anatomical models rendered and saved as `.png` files. These models were created using Linux, Blender and Python scripts that are found on my account in a [different repository](https://github.com/YogiOnBioinformatics/Blender-Python-Scripts) known as `Blender-Python-Scripts`. The models took many months of work which involved creating scripts to automate loading in files, decimate (reduce data points) of 3D model objects, learn photography lighting techniques and viewing live surgical videos/images to determine correct colors for anatomical parts.

:file_folder: `Bioinformatics Capstone/` 

This folder contains a presentation and final paper that was written for the Bioinformatics capstone course in Spring 2018. The folder contains information about a Python script known as YogAlex and about Cheminformatics Machine Learning. The YogAlex project is related entirely to the bigger project of ProteinVR whereas the Cheminformatics portion is a very different project that is currently ongoing and can be found [here](https://github.com/YogiOnBioinformatics/ChemInformatics-Machine-Learning-with-NNScore-2.0). 

:file_folder: :scroll: `Demo/Initial Demo Instructions.pdf`

Look at this document to have a **VERY PRELIMINARY** example of the ProteinVR software. There are some funky backgrounds and bugs that are still being fixed. Either way it's a great place to get a feel for where we're going and look at some really cool scenes with proteins. 

**Contact Information** 

![interests](https://avatars1.githubusercontent.com/u/38919947?s=400&u=49ab1365a14fac78a91e425efd583f7a2bcb3e25&v=4)

Yogindra Raghav (YogiOnBioinformatics) 

yraghav97@gmail.com

Commit message:

Add blender python scripts, get rid of .gitattributes, updated README

README.md, after:

# ProteinVR: Micro and Structural Biology in a Virtual World

**Introduction**

*Note: As of January 2019, this project is still ongoing* and a formal publication is being drafted related to the effectiveness of this software. 


**ProteinVR: Micro and Structural Biology in a Virtual World** is a revolutionary scientific undertaking from the Dr. Jacob D. Durrant Lab of Computational Drug Discovery ([DurrantLab Github](https://github.com/durrantlab)) at the University of Pittsburgh. We seek to leverage the power of new and inexpensive **Virtual Reality** technology to be the **first-ever software** that helps teach anatomy and molecular biology to a broad scientific audience. This softawre will be initially tailored to students at the collegiate level but can be adjusted for usage in secondary education. 

I helped revise and give feedback on the grant that went into this project, ultimately yielding **$25,000** in funding. 

**Files**

:file_folder: `Anatomical Model Renders/`

This folder contains anatomical models rendered and saved as `.png` files. These models were created using Linux, Blender and Python scripts that are found on my account in a [different repository](https://github.com/YogiOnBioinformatics/Blender-Python-Scripts) known as `Blender-Python-Scripts`. The models took many months of work which involved creating scripts to automate loading in files, decimate (reduce data points) of 3D model objects, learn photography lighting techniques and viewing live surgical videos/images to determine correct colors for anatomical parts.

:file_folder: `Bioinformatics Capstone/` 

This folder contains a presentation and final paper that was written for the Bioinformatics capstone course in Spring 2018. The folder contains information about a Python script known as YogAlex and about Cheminformatics Machine Learning. The YogAlex project is related entirely to the bigger project of ProteinVR whereas the Cheminformatics portion is a very different project that is currently ongoing and can be found [here](https://github.com/YogiOnBioinformatics/ChemInformatics-Machine-Learning-with-NNScore-2.0). 

:file_folder: :scroll: `Demo/Initial Demo Instructions.pdf`

Look at this document to have a **VERY PRELIMINARY** example of the ProteinVR software. There are some funky backgrounds and bugs that are still being fixed. Either way it's a great place to get a feel for where we're going and look at some really cool scenes with proteins. 

:file_folder: `Blender Python Scripts/`

Folder that contains Blender Python (bpy) scripts used during the creation of anatomical models found in the `Anatomical Model Renders/` folder


**Contact Information** 

![interests](https://avatars1.githubusercontent.com/u/38919947?s=400&u=49ab1365a14fac78a91e425efd583f7a2bcb3e25&v=4)

Yogindra Raghav (YogiOnBioinformatics) 

yraghav97@gmail.com
